Add Machine ID Kubernetes and Apps guides (#14976)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/machine-id/guides/kubernetes.mdx

---
title: Machine ID with Kubernetes Access
description: Accessing Kubernetes clusters via Machine ID
---

> In this guide, we will demonstrate how to use Machine ID to access a Kubernetes

Reviewer: Same recommendation as the previous guide re: the "from an automated service" phrasing.

cluster protected by Teleport from an automated service.

With Machine ID, Teleport issues short-lived certificates, tied to a machine
identity, that can be rotated, audited, and managed with the same access
controls that Teleport provides for human users.

## Prerequisites

<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>
You will need Teleport Cloud 10.1.0 or later.
</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["oss","enterprise"]}>
You will need to be running the Teleport Proxy and Auth Services, version 10.1.0
or later.
</ScopedBlock>

If you have not already connected your Kubernetes cluster to Teleport, follow
the [Kubernetes Access Getting Started Guide](../../kubernetes-access/getting-started.mdx).

If you're not already familiar with Machine ID, follow the
[Getting Started Guide](../getting-started.mdx) to familiarize yourself with
Machine ID. You'll also need `tctl` access to initially configure the bot.

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

Lastly, ensure both `tbot` and `kubectl` are installed on your Machine ID

> client system. Refer to our [Installation guide](../../installation.mdx) for

Reviewer: Same comment as above re: the installation link

`tbot`, and the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
for `kubectl`.

## Step 1/3. Create a Machine ID bot and assign permissions

In this example, you'll create a bot named "example" and assign it a role
granting access to a Kubernetes cluster named "example".

First, create a file named `role.yaml` with the following content:
```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: machine-id-kube-role
version: v5
spec:
  allow:
    kubernetes_labels:
      '*': '*'
    kubernetes_groups:
    - example
    kubernetes_users:
    - alice
```

Be sure to configure the `allow` fields to match your environment:
 - `kubernetes_labels` must be specified to allow access to a matching
   Kubernetes cluster in your Teleport environment.

 - One (or both) of `kubernetes_groups` and `kubernetes_users` must be specified
   to so that the bot user may be mapped to a Kubernetes user and/or group.

   If only `kubernetes_groups` is set, `kubernetes_users` will be set to the
   bot's name by default.

>    Note that the specific user and group names are arbitrary and do not need to

Reviewer: I think this paragraph creates a bit of friction. On the one hand, we just indicated that we need to set `kubernetes_users` and `kubernetes_groups`. On the other hand, we also indicate that the users/groups don't need to correspond to anything real.

I think what would help would be a sentence about what a Teleport cluster actually does with the `kubernetes_groups` and `kubernetes_users` fields in the context of Machine ID.

Author: I'll try to clarify this. The existing Kubernetes docs are (IMO at least) misleading about these parameters, but maybe for understandable reasons since the details are awkward to explain.

   be explicitly created on the Kubernetes cluster. The running Teleport agent
   and matching Kubernetes RBAC rules are all that's needed to trust bot users
   as configured here.

Once finished, create the role in Teleport:
```code
$ tctl create -f role.yaml
```

<Details
title="Create a Kubernetes Role and RoleBinding"
opened={true}
>

> If you don't have an existing Kubernetes `Role` or `RoleBinding` to use, create

Reviewer: What does "to use" mean here? "If your bot user doesn't already have a Kubernetes `Role` or `RoleBinding`"?

Author: I've reworded the sentence to hopefully clear this up

one as follows.

First, create a role by running the following. If an existing

> role on the cluster will suffice, this step can be skipped.

Reviewer: How would the reader know if an existing role would suffice?

Author: I've tried to clarify this but it's ultimately up to the user's desired workload

---
title: Machine ID with Kubernetes Access
description: Accessing Kubernetes clusters via Machine ID
---

> In this guide, we will demonstrate how to use Machine ID to access a Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we will demonstrate how to configure an automated service to use Machine ID to access a Kubernetes cluster protected by Teleport.
```

> cluster protected by Teleport from an automated service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

With Machine ID, Teleport issues short-lived certificates, tied to a machine
identity, that can be rotated, audited, and managed with the same access
controls that Teleport provides for human users.

## Prerequisites

<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>
You will need Teleport Cloud 10.1.0 or later.
</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["oss","enterprise"]}>

> You will need to be running Teleport version 10.1.0 or later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need a running Teleport cluster version 10.1.0 or later.
```

</ScopedBlock>

If you have not already connected your Kubernetes cluster to Teleport, follow
the [Kubernetes Access Getting Started Guide](../../kubernetes-access/getting-started.mdx).

If you're not already familiar with Machine ID, follow the
[Getting Started Guide](../getting-started.mdx) to familiarize yourself with
Machine ID. You'll also need `tctl` access to initially configure the bot.

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

Lastly, ensure both `tbot` and `kubectl` are installed on your Machine ID

> client system. Refer to our [Installation guide](../../installation.mdx) for

Reviewer: Same as my "client system" comment in the Application Access guide.

   `RoleBindings` for the bot user to have any permissions on the target
   Kubernetes cluster.

Once finished, create the role in Teleport:
```code
$ tctl create -f role.yaml
```

<Details
title="Create a Kubernetes Role and RoleBinding"
opened={true}
>
If you don't have an existing Kubernetes `Role` or `RoleBinding` to grant your
Machine ID bot, create one as follows.

Kubernetes clusters often come with pre-made roles which may meet the needs of
your application, such as `view` and `edit`. You may view these preexisting
rules by running the following:
```code
$ kubectl get clusterrole
```

If you'd prefer to create a role of your own, the following command can be used
to create a rule with narrow access to certain resources types in the
`example-namespace` namespace:
```code
## This creates a role allowing `get` and `list` on pods and deployments.
$ kubectl create role example-role \
  --namespace=example-namespace \
  --verb=get,list \
  --resource=pods,deployments
```

Next, create a role binding to connect the bot to your role. You may bind either
the bot's mapped `User` or mapped `Group` to a role, however it must have been

> granted the matching `User` or `Group` via a Teleport role above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
granted the matching `User` or `Group` via a Teleport role above:
```

```code
## This binds the new role to the group `example`
$ kubectl create rolebinding example-rolebinding-group \
  --namespace=demo \
  --role=example-role \
  --group=example
## Alternatively, this binds the new role to the user `alice`
$ kubectl create rolebinding example-rolebinding-user \
  --namespace=demo \
  --role=example-role \
  --user=alice
## If binding to a ClusterRole like `view`, instead run the following:
$ kubectl create rolebinding example-rolebinding-user \
  --namespace=demo \
  --clusterrole=view \
  --user=alice
```

> Bots may be granted cluster-wide access by instead creating `ClusterRole` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can grant cluster-wide access to your bot user by instead creating `ClusterRole` and
```
The current phrasing can mean, "Bots may create...".

`ClusterRoleBinding` resources, which are not namespaced and use an otherwise
identical syntax.
</Details>

## Step 2/3. Configure and start Machine ID

> First, on a node with `tctl` access, create a new Machine ID bot using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On a node with `tctl` access, such as your local machine, create a new Machine ID bot using the
```

Teleport role created in the previous step:

```code
$ tctl bots add example --roles=machine-id-kube-role
```

The creates a bot named `example` with the necessary Kubernetes role. Be sure to
note the bot join token and CA PIN.

Next, on the bot node, create a Machine ID configuration file at
`/etc/tbot.yaml`:

<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>
```yaml
auth_server: "example.teleport.sh:443"
onboarding:
  join_method: "token"
  token: "00000000000000000000000000000000"
  ca_pins:
  - "sha256:1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111"
storage:
  directory: /var/lib/teleport/bot
destinations:
  - directory: /opt/machine-id
    kubernetes_cluster: example-k8s-cluster
```
</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["oss","enterprise"]}>
```yaml
auth_server: "teleport.example.com:443"
onboarding:
  join_method: "token"
  token: "(=presets.tokens.first=)"
  ca_pins:
  - "(=presets.ca_pin=)"
storage:
  directory: /var/lib/teleport/bot
destinations:
  - directory: /opt/machine-id
    kubernetes_cluster: example-k8s-cluster
```
</ScopedBlock>

Be sure to configure the `token` and `ca_pins` fields to match the output from

> `tctl bots add ...`, and set `kubernetes_cluster` match the cluster name as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`tctl bots add ...`, and set `kubernetes_cluster` to match the cluster name as
```

shown in `tsh kube ls`. For this example, we'll be connecting to the
`example-k8s-cluster` cluster.

Machine ID also allows you to use Linux ACLs to control access to certificates
on disk. You will use this to ensure only your application has access to the
short-lived certificates Machine ID uses.

We'll work with the assumption you will be running Machine ID as the Linux user

> `teleport` and your application as the Linux user `app`. Create and initialize

Reviewer: What does "your application" refer to?
